Welcome back by this point you should be familiar with how a typical successful coding interview should
look like especially how to solve a problem in front of an interviewer.
And we're going to do a fun little exercise here.
An interviewer just asked us a question and this is the question right here given to array's create
a function that lets a user know true or false whether these two arrays contain any common items.
For example if we had to erase year one containing a b c x and the other one Z Y and I would return
false because there's nothing common between these two erase.
However in this example array one in array to both contain X and because they have a common item it
should return true.
So an interviewer just asked you this question.
How will we go about solving it.
Well let's go step by step through our little guy.
When the interviewer says the question write down the key points at the top.
Make sure you have all the details.
Show how organized you are.
Well in this case I've kind of done this for you over here.
Ideally you would write this out as you are coding and make sure that you show the interviewer.
OK.
If I had this example it should return false.
If I had this example it should return true.
Now let's say the interviewer only gave you these points and no other information at least now you have
an idea of what are problems going to look at and whether we want to return false or true.
But we have two things that we want to do with our function.
One is we have two parameters
and this function is going to return true or false.
Now in the second point.
Make sure you double check what are the inputs what are the outputs what we've kind of already done
that and we've confirmed with our interviewer that we have two inputs which are a race we can even ask
the interviewer that.
Are they always going to be a raise.
Is it possible that the input might not be a race maybe an object maybe a string and we can confirm
with the injury or what those cases are.
In our case let's say that the of year says that these two parameters are always going to be a race
and we always want to return true or false.
And number two is really important here because we don't ever want to jump straight into coding.
Even if you think you know the answer or you've seen this problem before you know exactly what to do
don't jump straight in coding first explain your approach like I'm doing here talking it out because
if there are any problems with your approach or with your understanding of the question your interviewer
is going to often point them out to you here before jumping straight in and looking into your code and
saying that no this is wrong.
This way both the you and the interviewer know exactly what the steps are.
You need to follow.
Now let's look at Point number three here.
What is the most important value or the problem.
Do you have time space and memory to run this function.
What is the main goal now.
Because this is a simple question we might want to ask the interviewer how large this array's gonna
get.
Because if the interviewer says the array is never going to be more than 5 items well then maybe we
don't have to worry about big-O or time complexity or space complexity as much and then you can ask
the interviewer is our goal here to be as efficient as possible with our function.
What's more important to us is time complexity more important.
Or is space complexity more important.
Maybe the interviewer might tell you that we just want the most efficient function they can come up
with assuming that the array can get very very large.
So let's say in here we have two parameters arrays that have no size limit.
So these arrays can get really really big.
And in terms of returning true or false that's all we want we just want a boolean return.
Now number four Don't be annoying when asking too many questions and we're kind of getting to that territory
where we've asked a lot of questions to the interviewer and we kind of have an idea of what we want
to do.
We can keep asking them questions but remember you usually have a time limit.
You don't want to keep bothering them and knowing them and just asking them all these small little questions
before we start coding.
Keep time in mind.
And I think at this point we have an information that we can move on with our assumption to start solving
the problem.
So number five start with the naive brute force approach first thing that comes into mind.
It shows that you're able to think well and critically and you don't even need to write this code.
Just speak about it.
This is always a case when an interviewer asks your question.
They usually have an easy solution that we call the brute force which is not the most efficient but
usually is the easiest one or the first one that comes up.
So in our case if we look at this during an interview with a time limit you might say this looks like
a nested loop where we're comparing a with Z and then a with Y then a with I and then we go to be with
Z B with Y B with I and then so on and so forth.
So immediately this looks like we're comparing two different areas and we're going to have two for loops
one nested on top of each other and right away we know that that's a big O which we've talked about
of O and square.
Most likely during an interview nested for loops is something that we want to avoid just telling the
interviewer this solution even though it's not the best solution already shows that you're thinking
clearly about the problem.
And it also gives you a point from where to improve from now.
You don't necessarily have to code this part and it's usually enough just to describe how it works.
Kind of like I just did now but depending on your time you may or may not want to code this as well.
The important thing is that you let the interviewer know that this is the brute force or the easy naive
solution that may not be the most efficient at least this way you have the right answer then running
out of time and not even having an answer.
Number six here is TELL ME TELL them why this approach is not the best.
So in our case we said that the code might be not efficient or we might have not read abor a code that
is going to be really complicated and hard to read for other developers.
With my demonstration because I just want to think about this and so I can be more clear of why this
is.
Oh and squared.
I'm going to just code and most likely you wouldn't do this in an interview.
I'm just going to code the brute force solution so you can see what I mean.
I'm going to have a function and this function is going to say contains common item and it's going to
receive to erase array 1 and array 2.
Now we are going to take the first array and do a for loop.
So I'm going to say for let I whoops let pi equals zero.
And we'll say that as long as I is less then the array want length.
So that's the landfill the first array we're going to increment.
And within this loop we're going to have a for loop.
So in the first time around we're going to grab a from the first array and we're going to compare it
to the second array Z Y and X.
So we're going to have a for loop here and we'll say that we'll have the same thing.
At this time instead of I will say J.
Equals zero.
And this J as long as it's smaller than Array two dot length.
It's going to increment every time we look through it.
And finally within here we're going to do a bit of a comparison.
We're going to compare a to z then a two Y then a 2 x.
So if I go over here and say if array one index of I so array one at index of I.
So the first time around I is going to be zero.
So that means array 1 is going to contain a.
Let's actually grab this so we can see it better at the top over here.
I'm going to have to race here and we're going to say that array of 0.
First time around is going to grab eight.
And if that equals array two to whatever J is J is the index of array 2.
So first time around is going to compared to Z.
So and Z and then as this increments is going to compare to a and y and then this is going to increment
compare to X and then we go to the top loop again I gets incremented.
So becomes 1 now.
So we're going to start comparing B to Z B Y be to X and then C to Z C to high C do X and so on.
If that's the case and if this is true we want to return true otherwise if we loop through this and
this never matches well in that case we can just return false here.
Now let's see if this works.
I'm going to just say contains common item and we're going to give it to a race array 1 and array two.
If you run this and let's make this a little bit smaller so you can see if I run this
I get true because there is a common item of X if I change this to now have R and I click run I get
false.
Again if we change this to a and click run we get true because a and a match up looking at this and
we look at number 6 over here that is let's make this screen a little bit more organized so we can read
this.
Number six just tell them why this approach is not the best.
Now again you might not have time to even code this but we can bridleway see that we have two for loops
one nested after another and because we've already talked about this in the Big O O.S. we know that
we have a big row.
When it comes to time complexity here of well we have an array a and another array.
So that means multiply by B.
Again this is a bit of a trick because these two arrays can be different sizes.
We can't just say oh an square because these two arrays can have again like I said different sizes.
So this is a bit of a trick and it's a good thing that we wrote it out because now we see that instead
of 0 and square.
This is more like oh a times b if the array sizes are the same will be the same as 0 and squares so
that's pretty slow.
So number 7 walk through your approach common things and see where you may be able to break things and
you repetition bottlenecks like o n squared or unnecessary work.
Did you use all the information the interviewer gave you.
And so on and so forth.
Now looking at this I can say that we could probably do better you might not see a solution right away
and that is because you need to practice a few of these problems to understand a common pattern.
But one of the most common patterns when it comes to nested for loops is that you might be able to use
something called hash tables which will get you in javascript they're called objects in order to speed
things up.
Is there a way to turn this oh a times the time complexity into something faster.
We are doing a bit of unnecessary work where we just keep looping Z A Y A and then we go Busy B Y B.
And we're doing this comparison in the same work over and over what if we have a better solution.
I'm going to comment this out for now.
And scroll all the way to the bottom and we don't need this anymore.
And try a different solution.
And I bring the array down here just so we can see it.
Now before we start actually coding let's think about what steps we want to take well what if we had
a function that takes the first array.
So let's say array one is going to be converted to an object and this object is going to contain something
like this all contain.
And let's make sure we combine this out.
It's going to contain a equals true then be it close to true C close to true.
And then finally it's going to have X equals to true.
Now if we create an object like this we can now use this object without a rate to just say array 2.
Can we check each item in array 2 to this object and see if a property exists.
Ideally we can do something like array to index and see if this equals any of the object dot properties.
OK let's let's walk through this one more time.
This is a common pattern.
You're going to see a lot when it comes to improving time complexity so if you don't get this right
away don't stress out.
This is something that will become more and more familiar to you as we do more problems.
But if I'm able to convert to the first array into an object that looks like this.
Now instead of having to loop over both arrays I can just loop through the second array and just simply
check if the property Z exists on this object that we created.
No it doesn't.
Does the property Y exist on the Saray.
Does a property exist on this object.
Yes it does.
That means we have a common item now to show you how this actually works and why this solution would
be better than the first one.
I need to actually start coding it but as we go through Number eight we see that before you start coding.
We want to walk through your code and write down the steps you're going to do so let's start doing that.
I'm going to say that we're going to create a new function contains common item.
This one I'm going to add to because is our second function it's going to take in an array of one and
array to.
And now this function Let's make this a little bit smaller so it looks nicer.
There you go.
This function is going to say first I want you to loop through first array and create object where properties
equal items in the array.
And then the second thing will be to loop through secondary
and check if item and second array exists on created object.
Now before we even start coding this I can write a way sense that we're going to have a better performance
than the first Saray that was 0 a time speed because what we're going to do is have two loops but these
two loops are going to be nested.
Remember in the first solution we had nested for loops in this solution.
And our second solution we're going to have to separate for loops.
And if you remember our big O analysis when we have steps one after another instead of nested the big
O becomes a plus b we have a potential solution here have a time complexity of a plus b instead of a
time speed.
Those are big savings.
We need to start actually writing the code to see if we can solve this problem.
And because this video is getting long.
We're going to do this in the next video.
But I want to show you right here what we've just done and that is although we haven't given a clear
solution we've been talking about how we solve the problem.
The interviewer sees how we think.
CS what steps we take in CS that we're making smart critical decisions to go from understanding the
problem to solving the problem in a naive way.
Understanding why this might not be the best way and then start to think about possible solutions.
And the beauty of this approach is that no matter whether we get this part correct maybe our assumptions
are wrong and we can't do this.
We're showing the interviewer that we're thinking through a problem and we're making small logical steps
towards a solution.
And this is a lot better than just coding right away trying a solution.
And see if you get it right or wrong an interviewer is going to have a good understanding of your abilities
and your thought process this way.
And these are the type of people that they want to hire.
So in the next video let's finish out this problem let's coded and see if we can make this solution
more efficient by converting it to 0 A plus B.
I'll see in the next one.
Buh-Bye.